Set up SAML authentication with Okta (#1675)
timescale/docs: mst/saml-okta-mst.md

---
title: Setting up SAML authentication with Okta
excerpt: Learn how to make corporate level configuration like the authentication setup on Managed Service for TimescaleDB 
product: mst
---

# Set up authentication

> Security Assertion Markup Language (SAML) is a standard for exchanging authentication

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SAML (security assertion markup language) is a standard for exchanging authentication
```

and authorization data between an identity provider and a service provider. You can operate

> it with MST so that you and your collaborators can use your company's favorite authentication service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
it with MST so that you and your collaborators can use your preferred authentication service.
```

## Before you begin

1.  Create a new authentication method in MST.

> 1.  Create the Okta application and assign users to the Okta application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  Create the Okta application and assign users to it.
```

<procedure>

## Creating a new authentication method

> 1.  Login to the [MST account] [mst-login].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  Log in to your [MST account] [mst-login].
```

1.  Under `PROJECT` in the top left, click the drop down arrow and select `See all projects & accounts`.

> 1.  Click the `Account` you want to edit or create a new one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  Click the `Account` you want to edit, or create a new one.
```

1.  In the `Account page`, select the `Authentication` tab.

> 1.  Click `Add Authentication Method` and set the `Method Name` as `<OKTA>` and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  Click `Add Authentication Method`. Set the `Method Name` as `<OKTA>` and
```

    `Method Type` as `SAML`.

> 1.  Choose the team to add invited people or leave it blank and click `Add`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  Choose the team to add invited people or leave the field blank and click `Add`.
```

> 1.  The two parameter `Metadata URL`, and `ACS URL` to setup the SAML
>     authentication in your Identity Provider appears.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  The system shows two parameters required to set up SAML 
    authentication in your identity provider: `Metadata URL` and `ACS URL`.
```

Appears always makes me think there's a magic trick involved 😉 🪄

</procedure>

## Creating the Okta application and assigning users

> This is a two step process. First create the SAML SP-Initiated

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a two step process. First create the SAML SP-initiated
```

authentication flow, then create a bookmark app that redirects to
the Managed Service for TimescaleDB login page.

<procedure>

> 1.  Login to the `Admin` portal and navigate to the `Applications` tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  Log in to the `Admin` portal and navigate to the `Applications` tab.
```

> 1.  Click `Add Application` and click `Create New App` You should see

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  Click `Add Application` and click `Create New App`. You should see
```

    the `Create a new Application Integration` form.

> 1.  Select `SAML 2.0` for the `Sign on method`, then click `Create`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  Select `SAML 2.0` for the `Sign on method`, and click `Create`.
```

1.  In the `Create SAML Integration` set the `App name`, `App logo`, and `App visibility`,
    then click `Next`.

1.  Update the `Configure SAML` page with these values:
    |Parameter|Example value|Description|
   |-|-|-|
   |Single sign on URL|`https://api.timescale.io/v1/sso/saml/account/{account_id}/method/{account_authentication_method_id/acs`|
   The value in Timescale Console on the newly created `Authentication method` page.|
   |Audience URI (SP Entity ID)|`https://api.timescale.io/v1/sso/saml/account/{account_id}/method/{account_authentication_method_id}/metadata`|
   The value in Timescale Console on the newly created `Authentication method` page.|
   |Default Relay State|https://portal.managed.timescale.com/| is the homepage
   of the MST Console and is fundamental for IdP initiated sign-on to function

>    correctly.|

Reviewer: Does the table display correctly? I've usually done this with a nested unordered list, like Step 6. here: https://docs.timescale.com/mst/latest/logging/#creating-a-loggly-service-integration

1.  In the `ATTRIBUTE STATEMENTS`should have an entry with these values:

   |Parameter|Example value|
   |-|-|
   |name|`email`|
   |value|`user.email`|

> 1.  Click `Next` then `Finish`. You will be redirect to your application in Okta.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  Click `Next`, then click Finish`. You are redirected to your application in Okta.
```

> 1.  In the `Assignments` tab of the application on Okta, click the `Assign` to assign

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  In the `Assignments` tab of the Okta application, click Assign` to assign
```

    users or groups to the application.

> 1.  In the `Sign On` tab of the application on Okta, click the `View Setup Instructions`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  In the `Sign On` tab of the Okta application, click `View Setup Instructions`
```

>     and gather the required information to configure Okta in MST.

Reviewer: Might need to be more specific here with what info is required

> 1.  Download the *Certificate file* that you require to configure Okta in MST.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  Download the Certificate file to configure Okta in MST.
```

</procedure>

## Set up the Okta Application in Managed Service for TimescaleDB

<procedure>

> 1.  Login to the [MST account] [mst-login].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  Log in to your [MST account] [mst-login].
```

> 1.  Finalize the configuration on the `Authentication` tab of the `Account page`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  In the `Authentication` tab of the `Account page, finalize the configuration.
```

> 1.  Add the *Certificate file* in the `SAML Certificate` field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  In the `SAML Certificate` field, add the Certificate file.
```

> 1.  Enable the `Enable IdP Login` and `Enable authentication method`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  Check `Enable IdP Login`, and `Enable authentication method`.
```

1.  Click `Edit methd` to save the settings.

</procedure>

You can now use the `Account Link URL` on the authentication configuration page
to link your Okta account and MST profile. You can also invite other members of

> your team to login or signup to MST using Okta with the **Signup link** shown in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
your team to log in or sign up to MST using Okta with the sign up link shown in
```

the `Authentication method` page.

> ## Troubleshooting

Reviewer: We should put these into the new Troubleshooting format. @charislam can help if you need it. 

Also, make sure you're writing these in CCFR format.

Author: added .md files to the TS directory

   page.
    *   Audience URI (SP Entity ID):
    `https://api.timescale.io/v1/sso/saml/account/{account_id}/method/{account_authentication_method_id}/metadata`
   The value in Timescale Console on the newly created `Authentication method` page.
    *   Default Relay State:`https://portal.managed.timescale.com/`
    The homepage of the MST Console and is fundamental for IdP initiated sign-on
    to function correctly.

1.  In the `ATTRIBUTE STATEMENTS`should have an entry with these values:

   |Parameter|Example value|
   |-|-|
   |name|`email`|
   |value|`user.email`|

1.  Click `Next`, then click Finish`. You are redirected to your application in Okta.

1.  In the `Assignments` tab of the Okta application, click Assign` to assign
    users or groups to the application.

1.  In the `Sign On` tab of the Okta application, click `View Setup Instructions`
    and gather the required information to configure Okta in MST.
1.  Download the Certificate file to configure Okta in MST.

</procedure>

## Set up the Okta Application in Managed Service for TimescaleDB

<procedure>

1.  Log in to your [MST account] [mst-login].

> 1.  In the `Authentication` tab of the `Account page, finalize the configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  In the `Authentication` tab of the `Account` page, finalize the configuration.
```

1.  In the `SAML Certificate` field, add the Certificate file.
1.  Check `Enable IdP Login`, and `Enable authentication method`.
1.  Click `Edit methd` to save the settings.

</procedure>

You can now use the `Account Link URL` on the authentication configuration page
to link your Okta account and MST profile. You can also invite other members of
your team to log in or sign up to MST using Okta with the sign up link shown in
the `Authentication method` page.

## Troubleshooting

### Authentication failed

> When launching MST SAML application getting the following error::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you launch the MST SAML application, you might get this error:
```

   ```bash
   Authentication Failed

   Login failed.  Please contact your account administrator for more details.
   ```

> Check Okta authentication in MST console if `Enable IdP login` and `Enable authentication method` are

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check Okta authentication in the MST console, and make sure that Enable IdP login` 
and `Enable authentication method` are
```

enabled.

### Invalid `RelayState`

> If you get the `Invalid RelayState`, then you are attempting an IdP-initiated

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you get an `Invalid RelayState` error, then you are attempting an IdP-initiated
```

> auth flow, for example by clicking the MST SAML app from the Okta UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
authentication flow. This can happen if you click the MST SAML app from the Okta UI.
```

Previously, MST did not support IdP-initiated flows, but now it is possible if
you set the `Default RelayState` in Okta to the corresponding console of your
account.

> ### [The Okta password does not work

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### The Okta password does not work
```

> Make sure to use the `Account Link URL` to add the Okta Authentication method to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure you use the `Account Link URL` to add the Okta Authentication method to
```

your MST profile.

> After it is linked, you should get the choice of multiple sign-in methods as

Reviewer: As before ☝️
